everyone it's elena and i'm back with
another video and today i'm going to
share with you guys how i write my
essays as a law student at cambridge
i've partnered with lexisnexis for this
video to share with you guys how you can
speed up your legal research process
but more on that later
[Music]
that one of essay writing is getting a
question and then i usually just write
it down into an empty document in good
notes so this is my note-taking app on
the ipad
and then it is pretty much just time to
gather everything i'm gonna need for
writing the essay
so obviously i am gonna need my ipad
simply you know for brainstorming
and writing down anything else then i'm
also gonna need my reading notes
so at cambridge we have supervisions
which are a bit like seminars at other
universities
and we have to take reading notes for
each of these because we have to prepare
them and these are usually like your
best friends for essay writing because
they contain most of the information
that your professors will expect you to
incorporate
so you're definitely gonna have to keep
these nearby because you will have to
look up things
and you know just make sure you're on
the right track and then i also have my
statute book with me
now this is not necessarily a must it
really depends sometimes you will write
down the relevant statutes but i just
like having my statute book there
this is where all of the written laws
are and i usually have little post-its
there
so they just help me find the relevant
legislation a lot easier
and they can help you you know find the
right legislation like here i knew
i was going to need that 1999 act about
contracts and third parties
so i already had it open and yeah that's
pretty much everything that i needed for
writing this essay
the essay was about contract law so once
i had everything gathered it was time
for step one which is breaking apart the
question
and that is something that is so so
important and that i used to not do
because i somehow thought it wasn't
relevant but it is so what i usually do
is i will just circle keywords and then
take my reading notes and break down the
key concepts and the question
and that can help you really focus your
answer and also realize where there are
some nuances that you may have missed
when you just read the question for the
first time
now here i'm not writing down any
arguments or anything like that i'm
really just gathering information on the
different terms
so as you can see this is how i broke
down a question about contract law
so i circled two key words which were
here
intention and then also consideration
now these are the two key concepts that
this question asks about because you
need them for the formation of a
contract
and as you can see i also circled create
in red together with both
and i circled these two in red because
english contract law requires both of
these concepts for creating a contact
now create is a really big topic here so
that's how i know where this falls in
terms of the syllabus
it's about the creation of contracts
it's not about remedies or anything like
that
it's that part so then i also know you
know where to go in my reading notes
where to find what
and also you know break down that
concept of what does it mean to create
a contract what do you need for it
why is there something that maybe you
don't need anymore because that's what
this question was about
and then it was time to brainstorm some
arguments
now here i will usually just write down
whatever comes to mind
sometimes i will later on decide that
some of these arguments were stupid
and i will just not use them but here i
just pretty much write down whatever i
think could work as an argument in this
essay
and whatever i think might be a relevant
thought i also always try to come up
with counterpoints so
that i can show my professor that i
understand that
these arguments aren't beyond attack but
i also try to explain why i would
dismiss a counterpoint because
at the end of the day you want to
convince your professor by the end of
your essay
that your opinion is right on this so
i'll just write down anything that comes
to mind and you know try to figure out
where on this question
my opinion falls and then it is time
to take a look at everything that i have
accumulated on this document
and actually decide what is relevant so
again go back to your breakdown of the
question
make sure you really keep in mind what
this question is about what the nuances
are
and then look at your arguments and
decide which ones are good and then what
i usually do is i will put them into a
little
overview of my essay so here i have the
document on my laptop
i usually just have to question on top
and then i have a table there
the introduction the arguments and the
conclusion i just have them in different
colors because i find that helpful
and as you can see there are two columns
and that's because i
have a little column for my authorities
because in law you always need to name
an authority
usually whenever you say that something
is a law because well
you got to prove it and then it's time
to decide which arguments are
i guess worthy enough to make it into
this little overview
and once i've decided on that i will put
them in there and as you can tell this
table gets pretty big and the reason for
that
is that i really want to know what i'm
going to write
so i put a lot of work into this
overview and here's the finished
overview so this is what the table then
looks like
as you can see now we have some points
that i want to hit in the introduction
so those are just some
informative points and i have a fully
written out faces
i always write the pieces out completely
simply because i find that really
helpful as it gives you a lot more
structure
and because as you can tell my arguments
are pretty much just you know a few
words
so writing out the entire thesis just
helps me know what i actually meant with
these few key words
because sometimes it can be hard to
realize what i wanted but as you can
tell the authorities column is
completely empty
because we still have to fill that one
and the conclusion is also written out
in full for the same reason
as for which i also write out the entire
thesis
and yeah that's what the table looks
like now it's not bad but obviously
we need to fill those authority columns
so then it's time to go back to the
reading notes take a look at you know
what different cases do you have that
you can name
but very often your reading notes on
their own will probably not be enough
now the reason for that is that you
usually keep it short but you want to
make sure you use the correct language
so when you wrote down you know the
thesis off a paper or something
you want to make sure that you go back
and check whether you actually use the
vocabulary that the academic employed
or if there's a case where you're not
entirely sure what the exact wording was
but it's important
just double check to make sure that your
professor sees you put in the work
so that's the time where i usually go to
legal databases to check and also find
some extra readings and cases to show
off
and here i am on lexus library which
brings us to the amazing sponsor of
today's video which is lexisnexis
lexisnexis operates the lexus library
which is one of the biggest databases
where you can find lots of case law
academic journals and legislation
he was actually looking for a case which
i needed for writing my essay and i just
wanted to make sure that i was going to
use the correct wording so
that everything would be clear in my
essay now
using legal databases is a big part of
being a law student because you're
always researching authorities
but maybe you don't know exactly how to
use these legal databases
but the great thing about the lexus
library is that you can get trained in
using it for free
lexisnexis offers you certifications
both for the lexus library and lexis psl
but for the lexus library there are two
different certificates
one is the foundation one and then
there's also an advanced one the cool
thing is they're both free it only takes
60 minutes to sit either test and you
have to get 13 out of 15 questions
correct
but don't worry you don't have to take
the test in one sitting you can actually
pause and then return to it later
and you can also take the test again in
case it doesn't work out the first time
so
no pressure any law student has access
to lexis library in the uk which really
shows how important this legal database
is
so make sure that you get your
certification so that you can save
yourself a ton of time when researching
the law
and this can also help you with
applications you can of course put these
certifications onto your cv to show
employers that you know how to use this
bigger database
and 96 out of the top 100 uk law firms
actually use lexis library
so these certifications are definitely
worth doing and yeah here's me staring
at an article in the lexis library and
although i do not look
excited at all i was actually really
excited because i just found some
reading of the syllabus that i could use
for my essay and that
i thought would fit in really well with
the arguments and it ended up working
out well
so back to that contract law essay so
here i am now finally filling in some
authorities now when i say authorities i
don't just mean legal cases and statues
i also mean academic writing whatever it
is that backs up my argument so i really
mean more of you know
a sort of proof in quotation marks for
my argument and here is what my table
looks like once it is completed
as you can tell it got a little bit
bigger but now it's actually complete
so i now have authorities for all my
different arguments and i also have
keywords for the arguments themselves
as you can tell this is a pretty big
outline so
writing the essay in itself is actually
not really a big deal because
well most of it is pretty much written
out and you just really need to put it
into complete sentences
so that's what i then usually do and
that's pretty much it
since my outline is so comprehensive the
writing part is honestly not very
interesting
the only thing that i sometimes forget
but really really shouldn't and i would
highly recommend you do not
is read over that essay one last time
make sure the grammar is good
and if your professors like it then also
underline your different authorities so
whether it's statute or case law
just so that it's easier for them to see
that you cited them and that's it from
my side that's how i write my essays if
you guys are interested in a contract
essay that i wrote in this video
i linked the entire essay for you guys
in the info box below because i also
posted it on my law blog
thank you so much for watching this
video i hope you enjoyed it and make
sure to get your certifications from
[Music]
lexisnexis